---
title: "Context"
date: 2021-02-16T06:35:20-03:00
draft: false
---

Yesterday I talked to [@dutenrapha](https://github.com/dutenrapha), who answered
all my questions about `get_next_line`:

`get_next_line` is a function that reads an entire line from a file indexed by a file descriptor `fd`. It then alocates a string with the contents of that line without the linebreak `'\n'` and points `line` to it.

We don't have to pass anything allocated to `get_next_line`, we just pass the address of a pointer that will point to the allocated string. `line` should be freeable with `free()` after the function call unless an error occured.

We will incrementally read the file with `read()`, which advances its position in the file descriptor automatically.

We need to use a static pointer as a read buffer to access what was read in previous calls.

We need to handle the following situations:

1. If the read buffer doesn't have a `'\n'`, we concatenate with the previous buffer and call read again.
2. If the read buffer has a `'\n'`, we concatenate with the previous buffer up to `'\n'`.
3. If we reach the end of the file (`read() == 0`), we concatenate with the previous buffer.
4. We finally point `line` to an allocated string that contains the entire line without the `'\n'`. Then we release the memory allocated in the intermediate strings and return `1` or `0` for `'\n'` and `end_of_file` respectively.
5. If the parameters have any problems (`BUFFER_SIZE <= 0`), or if in any operation we were unable to allocate memory, we free whatever memory was allocated and return -1.

I also found this amazing documentation by
[@harm-smits](https://harm-smits.github.io/42docs/projects/get_next_line).

Today I will not be able to code much because of work and driver's ed.
