---
title: "Debugging my printf"
date: 2021-03-08T06:35:21-03:00
draft: false
---

Yesterday I fixed a lot of bugs on my printf.
I'm pretty sure I'll get it done by Wednesday at the latest.

I learned how to use `valgrind` and `gdb` to debug my code:
They're amazing tools and it's saving me a lot of time.

- [Valgrind Quick Start](https://valgrind.org/docs/manual/quick-start.html)
- [GNU Debugger Tutorial](http://www.gdbtutorial.com/tutorial/how-use-gdb-example)

You can run them straight from the shell or you can integrate them with your
VSCode by following these simple steps:

1. Create a build task with `Terminal > Configure Default Build Task`.
   This will generate a `.vscode/tasks.json` file that tells VSCode how to
   compile your program.

2. Open `.vscode/tasks.json` and configure the compiler arguments and working
   directory:

```json
{
  ...
  "args": ["-g", "*.c", "-o", "a.out"],
  "options": {
      "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}/path/to/sourcefiles"
  },
  ...
}
```

3. Test your build with `Ctrl + Shift + B`.
   It should open a panel at the bottom of your screen with a success or
   error message.
4. Create debug task with `Run > Add Configuration > C++ (GDB/LLDB)`
5. Point the `program` path to your executable:

```json
{
  ...
  "program": "${workspaceFolder}/path/to/a.out",
  ...
}
```

6. Add break points to your code by clicking the red dot on the editor's gutter.
7. Start the debugger with `F5`

- [VSCode gdb Integration Tutorial](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/config-linux)
- [VSCode gdb Setup Example](https://github.com/librity/ft_printf/tree/main/.vscode)

**TIP OF THE DAY**: You can run `gdb` on a `coredump` file and access the state
of your program before it crashed.
This is super useful while fixing segfault.

Today I'll continue working on printf.

I'm also starting an Elixir bootcamp from
[Rocket Seat](https://rocketseat.com.br/).
Learning functional languages is really helping me organize my C code better:

Since my main language is ruby, I'm used to thinking about my code in classes.
This was hindering a lot of my progress in C, since those resources simply
don't exist in that language and I was having a hard time organizing my projects
without them.

After I created my first Phoenix app and learned about function modules
everything clicked: I started creating families of functions as my
organizational unit, and separating `structs` accordingly.
This results in effective control structures for each function that are easily
extendable without the need for classes and objects.

My greatest obstacle was figuring out all the flag combinations that printf handles.
It's very arbitrary how they interact with each-other, and I couldn't find any
tutorials online that explain this well.
I figured it out by trail and error, by running a ton of tests and examples.
